Feed: Luke Smith's Webpage
Title: Hating Brave is Cool!
Date: Thu, 10 Dec 2020 21:00:00 -0300
Link: https://lukesmith.xyz/articles/hating-brave-is-cool/
 
[image 1: le shill lion (link #1)] 
 
I like and use the Brave Browser. It's a free and open source browser with 
features like:
 
 1. Ad-blocking by default.
 2. Tracker-blocking by default.
 3. Anti-fingerprinting mechanisms to prevent you from being monitored.
 4. Built-in Tor windows.
 5. Run by a based Christian and not furry leftists.
 
As far as I'm concerned, Brave is indisputably the best out-of-the-box 
general-purpose browser out there. There are other okay browsers, and I'll 
mention things about Brave I don't like, but Brave is especially good because it
comes with all of these sensible features out of the box (you don't have to go 
install an ad-blocker), so this makes it very good for installing it on your 
grandma's computer. The anti-fingerprinting abilities are even unique among 
power-user browsers.
 
Despite that, there is a loud clique of anti-Brave agitators and Brave skeptics.
Whenever I do a video on Brave, I can expect at least 20% dislikes and a torrent
of comments from people with anime avatars calling me a "shill" for 
“recommending” this browser.
 
This, I suspect, is because Brave has an optional extra feature: Brave Rewards, 
which is "too good to be true."
 
Brave Rewards
 
By default, Brave blocks all ads, but users can turn on "Brave Rewards" to 
voluntarily view occasional ads and will receive a small amount of Basic 
Attention Token (BAT), Brave's cryptocurrency. The ads don't mess up webpages by
appearing in them, but appear in their computer's notification system.
 
Brave's entire motivation is to replace traditional ads that fill up webpages 
with these kind of ads that share revenue directly with the web page owners and 
the people browsing the sites themselves. Ad companies disappear, the internet 
debloats and users and actual sites get a direct cut.
 
This ad feature is not just optional, but is disabled by default.
 
The Archetypical Brainlet Brave Skeptic
 
  “The fact that brave has exploded on the scene so quickly make me suspicious. 
  There's money involved somewhere.” —Comment on a YouTube video of mine
 
Yes. Because Brave users literally get money to browse with it. Duh.
 
So there is no conspiracy theory about this. Brave just does everything right as
a browser and they give you free money. In the Basic Attention Token system, 
companies buy ads and the revenue is shared directly by the owners of sites and 
the people who view the ads. This cuts out the middleman ad-companies from the 
internet. It removes and disincentivizes bloat in webpages. This is a 
drastically more effective and bloatfree way to monetize the internet than 
old-school ads. Or, you can just keep the default functionality where there are 
no ads.
 
I literally have people post on my videos constantly about how Brave is a big 
scheme and "you'll never see a cent of that money." Meanwhile, literally every 
Brave user, including me, gets a monthly payout. You can even receive your 
payout directly in US dollars if you want! Even if the Basic Attention Token 
framework totally flops, it's not like you're putting any money into it. The 
worst that can happen is you saying, "Oh no, all I have left is the browser with
the best out-of-the-box functionality!"
 
It reminds me of the joke of two economists walking down the street. One says, 
"Hey look, there's a $100 bill on the sidewalk!" The other one replies, "That's 
not possible, if there were, someone would've picked it up already."
 
The anti-Brave crowd's argument is always some form of "it's too good to be 
true." In reality, you don't realize how inefficient and wasteful the previous 
way of internet ads was. Why pay an ad agency with employees to pay website 
developers to put ads into the actual code of websites, contorting it all into a
mess? The BAT system and Brave just cuts out the middle man and keeps webpages 
clean by allowing ads to only be shown when wanted in the user's already 
existing notification system. The goal of the BAT project is to universalize 
Brave and perhaps similar browsers which block ads and trackers by default, thus
cutting off the very lifeblood of that inefficient and anti-social system.
 
If you still don't trust the BAT project or think it's gimmicky, great. By 
default, the "Brave Rewards" system is off. Complaining about Brave because it 
has an optional feature to make money is like complaining about another browser 
because it has an add-on you don't plan on using.
 
Tactical Ignorance
 
  “I use to love brave. NOT anymore.. I'm sure that they are fingerprinting and 
  using my browsing habits and even search queries and shows relevant ads. It is
  not like they are showing some random pop up for ads. I get ads for NordVPN if
  I search for best vpn 2020. I instantly get pop up for lenovo laptops as soon 
  as I search for laptop. Obviously, with all the utm source and other tracking 
  stuff. I am making around 15 BAT/month. I don't need those pennies. Back to 
  Firefox with Ublock Origin and Privacy Badger.” —Comment on a YouTube video of
  mine
 
This guy is literally talking as if how Brave works is some kind of mystery, as 
if its entire code base isn't openly auditable. No, Brave doesn't take or 
"fingerprint" your browsing habits, instead, if you are enrolled in Brave 
Rewards, you browser pulls the entire list of adds from the system, then locally
decides on your own computer what ads to serve.
 
On Brave's FAQ[2]:
 
  “Only the browser, after HTTPS terminates and secure pages are decrypted, has 
  all of your private data needed to analyze user intent. Our auditable open 
  source browser code protects this intent data on the client device. Our server
  side has no access to this data in the clear, nor does it have decryption 
  keys. We do not run a MitM proxy or VPN service. We provide signals to the 
  browser to help it make good decisions about what preferences and intent 
  signals to expose to maximize user, publisher and advertiser value. Each ad 
  request is anonymous, and exposes only a small subset of the user’s 
  preferences and intent signals to prevent “fingerprinting” the user by a 
  possibly unique set of tags.”
 
Is Brave bad for privacy?
 
A popularly linked Neocities site Spyware Watchdog[3] ranks Brave as having a 
rank of "High" spyware. The information on the site is generally good, but a 
little context-less: if you compare their Brave article to their articles on 
other browsers[4], this bad ranking for Brave is utterly out of place.
 
Many people who read things and lack basic critical thinking skills wanted me to
either admit or refute this page. Again, the website's information is good, but 
there is that same implicitly more skeptical standard held to Brave than other 
browsers.
 
As a point of comparison, take the browser Pale Moon. On their site, the Spyware
Watchdog classifies Pale Moon as being "Top Tier" in privacy, while Brave is 
"Low Tier."[5] But if you look at their own analysis[6], on nearly every point, 
Brave is superior to Pale Moon.
<b>Issue</>                       <b>Brave’s Flaws</>                                                                                                                                                                                      <b>Pale Moon’s Flaws</>                                                                                                                                             
Trackers                    Brave blocks ads and trackers, but whitelists Facebook and Twitter to not break cross-site logins for normies. Users can still choose to block these sites in the settings menu.                   Pale Moon does not block any ads or trackers at all, so tough luck. Go find an extension that works well with it.                                             
Forced incompatibility      None.                                                                                                                                                                                              Pale Moon ships with a blocklist of add-ons that the developers don't want you installing. This includes NoScript and Ad Nauseam.                             
Auto-updates                Brave checks for updates on startup. (I'm not sure if this is the case on Linux too). There is no menu option to disable this but you can block connections to the update site in your hosts file. Pale Moon automatically checks for updates, add-on updates and changes to the add-on blocklist on start-up. In the about:config some of these can be disabled.
Analytics on the Start Page Brave connects to a free/open source Piwik service to get the number of ads/trackers blocked for the startpage. This can be disabled on the start page.                                            Pale Moon connects to Google analytics on the start page. This can be disabled by changing the start page.                                                    
Other bad connections       If ads are enabled, Brave makes connection to a site to get ads. It also checks a HTTPS ruleset on an Amazon server.                                                                               Pale Moon makes a OCSP request for every website you connect to to verify their SSL with a third party. This can be turned off in the options.                
 
On pretty much all of these points, when Brave is lacking, Pale Moon is much 
worse (that isn't to say that Pale Moon is a bad browser either). So it doesn't 
really make sense to me why Brave, which also comes with additional privacy 
features like fingerprint-blocking, should be classified as lower than Pale 
Meme. That site also claims that Brave uses the Google search engine as default.
If that was ever true, it isn't now, or at least not on any version of Brave 
I've used. Brave asks the user on the first start up which search engine he 
would like to use as default. Google is among the choices though.
 
Note that in their articles they admit that Pale Moon has "auto-updates," but 
complain that Brave has "shitty auto-updates." Okay. I wonder what the 
difference is aside from personal emotion. In the last paragraph or so, they do 
mention, if not skirt around all the actual features of Brave:
 
  “and the fingerprinting protection I don't think is found in any other browser
  (but I didn't confirm if it actually works).”
 
It does (of course it's an arms-race). But this is an acknowledgment that Brave 
is fighting on a level that no other browser is. While other honorable browsers 
like Ice Cat are committed to free software, Brave is also committed to an 
internet free from ads enmeshed in web pages and the people who simp for them.
 
Brave for normies
 
Aside from nit-picking different browsers, if you want to install a browser on a
computer for a normie relative or friend, there is no debate that Brave is the 
best. Again, Brave is built with ad and tracker blocking. Browsers like Pale 
Moon or Firefox are bad browsers that can become okay browsers after you 
manually disable their junk features and download a bunch of add-ons, but Brave 
comes as it should be. Even Brave's token feature of viewing ads to get paid is 
not on by default. As it ships, Brave is just a good browser.
 
This is why I have Brave ship with LARBS[7]: it's a pain to hosts a repository 
and edit browser settings via dotfiles, while I can just have Brave installed 
and that gives a passable, ad-free experience for users.
 
So if you want to make a normie's life easier, install Brave. They will be able 
to do everything they could do on Chrome, but now they have decreased their 
Google liability and no longer have to put up with ads.
 
Grasping at Straws...
 
Chromium based
 
When you corner an anti-Brave aggitant, they usually mumble something about how 
Brave is bad because it's "Chromium-based." I've never seen people use this 
argument about, say, qutebrowser or other minor Chromium-based browsers, but I 
think it's just become "that reason" for Brave. I honestly, really can't get 
worked up against a free and open source software project just because it's been
spearheaded by Google. The ability to fork it always remains if the code goes 
south or if it does degenerate stuff.
 
I think it's especially absurd to place your trust in Mozilla FurryFox and their
team of stereotypical SJWs and soydevs as a functioning alternative. Remember 
Mozilla spends its money developing fun add-ons like this[8] to "protect" people
emotionally from scary "conspiracy theories" and "alt-right content" on YouTube.
I consider Google just as insane and dangerous, but not necessarily so much more
insane so that I for some reason trust the judgment of Mozilla developers over 
Google ones.
 
EDIT: Here's another one from Mozilla FurryFox: "We need more than 
deplatforming"[9] Moreso than Google, Mozilla's openly stated goal is an 
internet totally controlled by stereotypical dyed-hair SJWs with bad 
physiognomy.
 
What I mean by this is, sure, I'd like some browser with an independent engine. 
Pale Moon does sort of has that. That's cool. But that is not enough to make a 
difference for actual usage. Again, look at the list of benefits of Brave at the
top of this article, all of those are hard to replicate or find in other 
browsers. I could go into it elsewhere, but there are a million little reasons 
why I don't use Pale Moon (but you might like it).
 
Affiliate links
 
Twitter users/Redditors went apoplectic several months ago when they realized 
Brave had included affiliate links to some sites whose names are filled in in 
the url bar. I have already written on this.[10] It's literally nothing. As I 
say there, this is what affiliate links are for. I've never heard the same crowd
through a fit that DuckDuckGo does exactly the same thing[11]. You could even 
actually see the Brave affiliate links fill in, which is not the case when 
clicking on a DuckDuckGo affiliate site link. Still took these guys months to 
even notice... This is only something "controversial" to people who are trying 
their damnedest to find something to not like about Brave.
 
Actual good complaints about Brave and BAT
 
Since most visceral anti-Brave agitators just have a kind of general ax to 
grind, I want to take this time to voice my actually annoyances with Brave and 
the BAT project. I consider all of these ultimata: I only use Brave with the 
expectation that these issues will be fixed in the future.
 
Get rid of Uphold!
 
Actually, let me say that in <h1>...
 
Get rid of Uphold!
------------------
 
So you can get BAT from viewing ads, and people with websites and YouTube 
channels can receive donations, great. The annoying thing however is that you 
can't just get payouts to a random Ethereum wallet, instead, you have to use the
company Uphold. This is probably because of legal issues and because I'm sure 
they have some financial arrangement, but the BAT project cannot be considered 
to be a universal and private solution if users are funneled into some site that
requires a real-world identity.
 
Legally or technologically difficult to do otherwise? Maybe. But that is one of 
the goals of cryptocurrencies anyway and it should be met. Build the technology 
so that it's impossible to legally constrain. Most blockchain technology is 
already like that.
 
Users should just be able to give a public Ethereum/Token address and receive 
BAT there. That should be it. If you want to offer a normie-friendly partner 
service like Uphold, fine, but that should not be either the default or 
required. Uphold, I should say, is definitely not normie-friendly anyway. Since 
they did a redesign late September/early Ocotober, I admit I literally cannot 
figure the site out and how to transfer my BAT out efficiently.
 
I should say, in development Brave has had some suboptimal or non-private 
features in the past before better solutions were devised. I mentioned the fact 
that Brave pulls a non-personalized ad list, but that wasn't always the case to 
my understanding: when Brave was starting out, the browser did request specific 
ads, giving the central service some information about user browsing habits. So 
that at least indicates that Brave is open to reevaluating methods that are 
exploitable.
 
BAT as a 💩coin
 
Let me state it again though, if the BAT system requires Uphold for basic 
functionality, it is not a serious long-term service. That's it. I only use and 
recommend the BAT system under the expectation that this is a temporary 
situation that they are actively seeking to remedy. If anti-Brave shills want to
shill about something that actually matters, this should be it!
 
Like most 💩coins, BAT is not decentralized in any meaningful sense. It’s KYCed 
into oblivion and relies on a significant number of platforms in bottleneck 
positions, including in particular the BAT Project itself. I wouldn’t say I even
support the BAT Project itself for this reason, I just don’t mind using Brave 
since you can dip your fingers into it without getting KYCed.
 
Auto-updates and integrations
 
I agree strongly with the argument from the Spyware Watchdog site above that 
Brave should not make any unsolicited requests to sites, especially 
auto-updates, and if it has a reason to, it should have some menu option to 
disable it. Any connections a browser makes in the background for these purposes
or for analytics should be disabled by default too.
 
The Browser should be neutral and decentralized.
 
Somewhat related to the above, if Brave is actually serious about becoming the 
commonly used system not just for browsing, but for internet monetization, it 
has to be as neutral and decentralized as possible. Brave has added a lot of 
optional features for different services and other little annoyances. Obviously,
you can immediately disable them, but if you want to have a personalizable and 
universal browsing experience, Brave should be absolutely blank when you pull it
up on a fresh install.
 
General little features
 
  * The ability to not keep track of history but to still keep cookies. All 
  Chromium browsers lack this menu feature which exists in Firefox. I'm not sure
  why this isn't an option because it has always seemed to me the most sensible 
  way to browse. I don't want sites I've already seen filling in my url bar!
 
 
Links: 
[1]: https://lukesmith.xyz/pix/leshilllion.png (image)
[2]: https://brave.com/faq/ (link)
[3]: https://spyware.neocities.org/articles/brave.html (link)
[4]: https://spyware.neocities.org/articles/index.html (link)
[5]: https://spyware.neocities.org/articles/browsers.html (link)
[6]: https://spyware.neocities.org/articles/palemoon.html (link)
[7]: https://larbs.xyz/ (link)
[8]: https://foundation.mozilla.org/en/campaigns/regrets-reporter/ (link)
[9]: https://archive.is/hzS8G (link)
[10]: https://lukesmith.xyz/blog/le-shill-lion (link)
[11]: https://help.duckduckgo.com/duckduckgo-help-pages/company/advertising-and-affiliates/ (link)

