Feed: Luke Smith's Webpage
Title: Why It's Bad to Have High GDP
Date: Thu, 21 Jan 2021 21:00:00 -0300
Link: https://lukesmith.xyz/articles/why-its-bad-to-have-high-gdp/
 
To put it in other words...
 
The common way of looking at Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is that it's a metric 
of economic success: more GDP is more wealth. Wealth is good. "Poverty" (meaning
low per capita GDP) is bad. Nowadays, pretty much everyone talks about 
"economics" like this as if this truism was scribbled on the back walls of the 
cosmos.
 
This is just looking at one side of the ledger in a kind of global double-entry 
accounting book. A logically equivalent way of looking at it is that GDP is a 
metric of economic exchange required for survival in society as it exists. You 
can say that some area "produced" $1 billion of output (sounds good), but you 
can just as easily say that $1 billion was required for that area to sustain 
itself (sounds bad). These two are simply logically equivalent.
 
Living on $1 a day
[image 1: (((They))) don't want you to know about this. (link 
#2)][1]Antediluvian Hyperborea. GDP: $0 per year. 
 
Let's dive into the Gestalt: when you hear that a family of eight lives on less 
than a dollar per day (PPP adjusted), you might wonder how they manage! To 
actually do such a thing would require buying large bags of rice for the whole 
family, eat only that and live in free cardboard boxes.
 
The reality is that that often uttered phrase means that they use less than $1 a
day in the general economy, while the rest of their livelihood is "off-the-grid"
or self-sufficient. They may grow food in a family farm, hunt for food, and most
of their daily needs from cooking oils, to plates, to pottery, to soap are often
made at home as well.
 
There is still "an economy" but often one that is barter based or socialist in 
the real pre-socialist sense of the word: mediated by direct face-to-face social
tit-for-tat between neighbors and friends, none of this mediated by currency 
being exchanged, thus it is not part of the GDP.
 
If you read about some Bangladeshi village where the only product is "textiles",
that doesn't mean that everyone there makes textiles all day and, without a 
textile company, everyone would've starved to death. It means that the only 
on-paper, measurable global industry practiced there is textile manufacturing. 
Other villagers might farm, hunt, even do some kind of gathering in some places.
They will produce the arts and crafts and live the way people live when you 
leave them alone. If your view of the world is mediated by GDP, you're only 
seeing the extremely small sliver that pops into existence when people exchange 
something involving legal tender.
 
This is extremely difficult for us modern bugpeople to understand because to be 
a bugman in a large city is to produce absolutely nothing on one's own and buy 
literally everything you need from the store. To us non-productive people, GDP 
means income which means survival. But the further out of Bugmanville you go, 
the clearer the vacuousness of GDP becomes. When you realize that most of human 
wealth is unmeasured by GDP, you realize that Whig History and Steven Pinkerism 
is based on shaky foundations.
 
Example
 
A minor example. We had a large Thanksgiving feast near my uncle's house in very
rural Florida. As it got cold in the night, we had a fire in a repurposed old 
sugar cane cooking vat artfully standing on used symmetrical cinderblock pieces.
A bugman hipster might pay two hundred dollars or more for a similar looking 
"authentic" piece of equipment. Those $200 would be counted in the GDP. A bugman
hipster might have also bought or rented chairs for the event, "contributing" 
more to the GDP, but my uncle, as part of the local wholesome church community, 
simply borrowed some from the church. Thus our event produced basically no GDP 
output in goods or services, despite being functionally equivalent to some 
similar but expensive and ergo "productive" "Friendsgiving" practiced by 
urbanites. In reality we are richer than the bugmen hipsters who blew hundreds 
of dollars on a faux-folksy party. In this case, we owned the firepit and had 
easy access and permission to the chairs, thus we are more economically flexible
than they are. That GDP that they produced/expended is evidence of deeper 
reliance on the economic system. That GDP output is a marker of fragility, 
reliance on the conditions of the outside economy in the same way that a village
of Bangladeshis who abandon their traditional way of lives to work on textiles 
are more fragile, despite being able to save up for iPhones.
 
What GDP really measures
 
Most of the increase in GDP across the world is simply the movement from local 
partially-social partially-under-the-table economies to economies mediated by 
taxable currency. An economically self-sufficient village with close social 
relationships and a barter economy has 0 GDP. A township of entrepreneurs and 
artisans you partially barter and partially use currency which they don't report
has 0 GDP. All of these people are "in poverty" and "earn less than a dollar a 
day". And if you want to be truly self-sufficient, that means having a personal 
GDP of zero.
 
More than that, pretty much everywhere, GDP is a strong indicator of social 
upheaval. If you think that GDP is some eternal goodness, remember that 
everything "good" about industrialization shows up in the GDP, while at the same
time, everything bad about it will not show up. Or, sometimes bad things are 
registered as positive economic growth: urbanization has caused mass-disease, 
and if that means a market for new medical services and pharmaceuticals, great! 
The GDP just went up! The Ganges is polluted due to the textile plant? That just
means more opportunities for local entrepreneurs to sell bottled water! The GDP 
just went up! Are people being pushed out of fishing or other subsistence 
occupations because of it? Even better! Now they have no choice but to 
contribute to the GDP! With every passing year, in fact, more and more of the 
GDP is produced by dealing with the problems that our higher level of GDP have 
caused.
 
At the end of the day, GDP is only a measurement of how reliant a place or 
country is on the global economy. Self-sufficiency has a GDP of 0. Wasteful 
consooomerism has an extremely large GDP.
 
Planned obsolescence
 
I have one of my great grandfather's early electric circular saws. It has a 
bunch of gunk in it, but it still works (although I recently took it apart to 
replace some old screws and springs and other little parts to be careful). They 
literally do not make circular saws like it; it's all metal, while even the 
fancy modern stuff is mostly plastic.
 
The "unfortunate" thing about it and other durable tools is that it's "bad for 
the economy," especially the GDP. Since that thing has been around since maybe 
the 50's or 60's, that's as long as 70 years the economy has gone without the 
"stimulation" of us having to buy another saw.
 
Viewers of my technology videos: Which would be better for the world, if 
everyone used the material equivalent of a classic American-made IBM ThinkPad, 
or some Apple Laptops that are unfixable computers made of mostly batteries 
designed to conk out right before the new version comes out? Regardless, the 
Apple Macs that cost thousands a piece are much better for the "economy."
 
That's what I mean. If you have quality tools and do not need to constantly 
throw money at the system to buy things, fix things and otherwise waste money, 
you are going to be having a lower GDP. That's just how it is.
 
The propagandistic role of GDP
 
When you don't think things through like this, GDP is supposed to appear as an 
objective measure of economic goodness. You're supposed to be looking at those 
GDP charts and saying, "Wow, my life might be terrible, I am not free, I am 
subject to forces out of my control, and I am told I have to participate in 
mass-consumerism to survive, but these charts are the facts[!], and the facts 
say that things are better now, so I believe them!"
 
It's legitimately surprising to me how big of a boon the idea of increasing GDP 
is for Whig history and NPCs of many different ideologies. People of the Left 
and Right will matter-of-factly tell me that a plastic based economy taking over
the world is still good because the line is going up. I've heard it as a 
justification for everything:
 
  * Don't like globalization? 
 
      * You're wrong, the GDP is going up.
 
  * Don't trust state-funded institutionalized science? 
 
      * You're wrong, the GDP is going up.
 
  * Don't want child drag queens? 
 
      * You're wrong, the GDP is going up.
 
  * Don't want everything to be made of plastics and other petrochemicals? 
 
      * You're wrong, the GDP is going up.
 
  * Don't want mass pornography? 
 
      * You're wrong, the GDP is going up.
 
  * Don't want free sugary drinks since infancy? 
 
      * You're wrong, the GDP is going up.
 
 
When you abandon the illusion of GDP, you are suddenly able to ask whether 
massive technological "progress" has actually been good for real human life and 
human pychology.
 
Links: 
[1]: https://lukesmith.xyz/pix/ivanov01.jpg (link)
[2]: https://lukesmith.xyz/pix/ivanov01s.jpg (image)

